import Post from 'layouts/Post';

export const metadata = {
  date: '2021-05-13',
  title: 'Comments with Utterances on Next.js',
  categories: ['utterances', 'nextjs', 'react'],
};

export default Post;

[Utterances](https://utteranc.es) is a neat little script
and GitHub app that adds commenting to your blog backed by
comments on GitHub issues. The script is lightweight, at the
time of writing clocking in at 14KB compressed.

The official instructions say to include a script tag in
your HTML, like so:

```html
<script
  src="https://utteranc.es/client.js"
  repo="ianobermiller/ianobermiller.com"
  issue-term="pathname"
  theme="preferred-color-scheme"
  crossorigin="anonymous"
  async
></script>
```

You can put this same snippet in a React component in
Next.js, but won't work as expected. If you navigate
directly to a post that includes the script, it will work
because the script will be rendered on the server. If you
click a link within the application however, like from an
index page, the comments will not load. This is because
React doesn't dynamically render `script` tags.

Instead, you need to create a `script` tag inside of
`useEffect`, assign the attributes, and append it to an
element. It looks like this:

```tsx
function Comments() {
  const ref = useRef<HTMLDivElement | null>(null);
  useEffect(() => {
    const scriptElement = document.createElement('script');
    scriptElement.async = true;
    scriptElement.crossOrigin = 'anonymous';
    scriptElement.src = 'https://utteranc.es/client.js';

    scriptElement.setAttribute('issue-term', 'pathname');
    scriptElement.setAttribute('label', 'comment');
    scriptElement.setAttribute(
      'repo',
      'ianobermiller/ianobermiller.com',
    );
    scriptElement.setAttribute(
      'theme',
      'preferred-color-scheme',
    );

    ref.current?.appendChild(scriptElement);
  }, []);

  return <div ref={ref} />;
}
```

First off, we'll separate this into a component to keep our
main `Post` component clean. Next, we'll create a `ref` that
will be assigned to an empty `div` which will be the
container for the script tag. Then, inside of `useEffect`,
we create the actual script tag, assign standard props
(`async`, `crossOrigin`, and `src`) directly, and use
`setAttribute` for the utterances specific props.

And that's it! You can see the result below this post.
